Che Guevara | Biography, Facts, Fidel Castro, & Death | Britannica
Entertainment & Pop Culture Geography & Travel Health & Medicine Lifestyles & Social Issues Literature Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government Science Sports & Recreation Technology Visual Arts World History Quizzes Games Podcasts On This Day Biographies Week In Review Topic Summaries Infographics Demystified Lists #WTFact Companions Image Galleries Spotlight Entertainment & Pop Culture Geography & Travel Health & Medicine Lifestyles & Social Issues Literature Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government Science Sports & Recreation Technology Visual Arts World History Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Time in History In these videos, find out what happened this month (or any month!) in history. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions.
Che Guevara Article Media Additional Info Article Contents Introduction & Quick Facts Medical school and Motorcycle Diaries: early life The Cuban Revolution The Congo, Bolivia, and death Che the icon: legacy Home Politics, Law & Government Economics & Economic Systems Che Guevara Argentine-Cuban revolutionary Print print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Share Share Share to social media Facebook Twitter URL https://www.britannica.com/biography/Che-Guevara More Give Feedback External Websites Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! External Websites Spartacus Educational - Biography of Che Guevara Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Che Guevara - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) WRITTEN BY Andrew Annandale Sinclair Historian and filmmaker. Author of Guevara and others. See Article History Alternative Title: Ernesto Guevara de la Serna Che Guevara, byname of Ernesto Guevara de la Serna, (born June 14, 1928, Rosario, Argentina-died October 9, 1967, La Higuera, Bolivia), theoretician and tactician of guerrilla warfare, prominent communist figure in the Cuban Revolution (1956-59), and guerrilla leader in South America. After his execution by the Bolivian army, he was regarded as a martyred hero by generations of leftists worldwide, and his image became an icon of leftist radicalism and anti-imperialism. Top Questions Why was Che Guevara so influential? Che Guevara was a prominent communist figure in the Cuban Revolution (1956-59) and a guerrilla leader in South America who became a powerful symbol for revolutionary action. After his execution by the Bolivian army, he was regarded as a martyred hero by generations of leftists, and his image became an icon of leftist radicalism and anti-imperialism. What was Che Guevara’s early life like? Che Guevara was the eldest of five children in a middle-class Argentine family of leftist leanings. He was an excellent athlete and scholar. Before he completed his medical studies in 1953, his worldview was changed by the poverty he saw during a nine-month journey through Latin America in 1951-52. What did Che Guevara believe in? Che Guevara expounded a vision of a new socialist citizen who would work for the good of society rather than for personal profit. How was Che Guevara killed? In October 1967 the guerrilla group that Che Guevara was leading in Bolivia was nearly annihilated by a special detachment of the Bolivian army aided by CIA advisers. Wounded, Guevara was captured and then shot dead. Before he was secretly buried, his hands were cut off so that his fingerprints could be used to confirm his identity. Where was Che Guevara buried? Che Guevara was secretly buried after he was killed in Bolivia in 1967, but in 1997 a skeleton that was believed to be his and the remains of six of his comrades were disinterred from a mass grave near Vallegrande, Bolivia, transported to Cuba, and reinterred in a memorial and monument in Santa Clara. Medical school and Motorcycle Diaries: early life Guevara was the eldest of five children in a middle-class family of Spanish-Irish descent and leftist leanings. Although suffering from asthma, he excelled as an athlete and a scholar, completing his medical studies in 1953. He spent many of his holidays traveling in Latin America, and his observations of the great poverty of the masses contributed to his eventual conclusion that the only solution lay in violent revolution. He came to look upon Latin America not as a collection of separate nations but as a cultural and economic entity, the liberation of which would require an intercontinental strategy. In particular, his worldview was changed by a nine-month journey he began in December 1951, while on hiatus from medical school, with his friend Alberto Granado. That trip, which began on a motorcycle they called “the Powerful” (which broke down and was abandoned early in the journey), took them from Argentina through Chile, Peru, Colombia, and on to Venezuela, from which Guevara traveled alone on to Miami, returning to Argentina by plane. During the trip Guevara kept a journal that was posthumously published under his family’s guidance as The Motorcycle Diaries: Notes on a Latin American Journey (2003) and adapted to film as The Motorcycle Diaries (2004). In 1953 Guevara went to Guatemala, where Jacobo Arbenz headed a progressive regime that was attempting to bring about a social revolution. (About that time Guevara acquired his nickname, from a verbal mannerism of Argentines who punctuate their speech with the interjection che.) The overthrow of the Arbenz regime in 1954 in a coup supported by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) persuaded Guevara that the United States would always oppose progressive leftist governments. This became the cornerstone of his plans to bring about socialism by means of a worldwide revolution. It was in Guatemala that Guevara became a dedicated Marxist. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today The Cuban Revolution He left Guatemala for Mexico, where he met the Cuban brothers Fidel and Raúl Castro, political exiles who were preparing an attempt to overthrow the dictatorship of Fulgencio Batista in Cuba. Guevara joined Fidel Castro’s 26th of July Movement, which landed a force of 81 men (including Guevara) in the Cuban province of Oriente on December 2, 1956. Immediately detected by Batista’s army, they were almost wiped out. The few survivors, including the wounded Guevara, reached the Sierra Maestra, where they became the nucleus of a guerrilla army. The rebels slowly gained in strength, seizing weapons from Batista’s forces and winning support and new recruits. Guevara had initially come along as the force’s doctor, but he had also trained in weapons use, and he became one of Castro’s most-trusted aides. Indeed, the complex Guevara, though trained as a healer, also, on occasion, acted as the executioner (or ordered the execution) of suspected traitors and deserters. He recorded the two years spent overthrowing Batista’s government in Pasajes de la guerra revolucionaria (1963; Reminiscences of the Cuban Revolutionary War, 1968). Che Guevara Che Guevara.Yutaka Nagata/UN Photo After Castro’s victorious troops entered Havana on January 8, 1959, Guevara served for several months at La Cabaña prison, where he oversaw the executions of individuals deemed to be enemies of the revolution. Guevara became a Cuban citizen, as prominent in the newly established Marxist government as he had been in the revolutionary army, representing Cuba on many commercial missions. He also became well known in the West for his opposition to all forms of imperialism and neocolonialism and for his attacks on U.S. foreign policy. He served as chief of the Industrial Department of the National Institute of Agrarian Reform, president of the National Bank of Cuba (famously demonstrating his disdain for capitalism by signing currency simply “Che”), and minister of industry. During the early 1960s, he defined Cuba’s policies and his own views in many speeches and writings, notably “El socialismo y el hombre en Cuba” (1965; “Man and Socialism in Cuba,” 1967)-an examination of Cuba’s new brand of communism-and a highly influential manual, La guerra de guerrillas (1960; Guerrilla Warfare, 1961). The last book included Guevara’s delineation of his foco theory (foquismo), a doctrine of revolution in Latin America drawn from the experience of the Cuban Revolution and predicated on three main tenets: 1) guerrilla forces are capable of defeating the army; 2) all the conditions for making a revolution do not have to be in place to begin a revolution, because the rebellion itself can bring them about; and 3) the countryside of underdeveloped Latin America is suited for armed combat. Guevara expounded a vision of a new socialist citizen who would work for the good of society rather than for personal profit, a notion he embodied through his own hard work. Often he slept in his office, and, in support of the volunteer labour program he had organized, he spent his day off working in a sugarcane field. He grew increasingly disheartened, however, as Cuba became a client state of the Soviet Union, and he felt betrayed by the Soviets when they removed their missiles from the island without consulting the Cuban leadership during the Cuban missile crisis of 1962. Guevara began looking to the People’s Republic of China and its leader Mao Zedong for support and as an example. Che Guevara Quick Facts View Media Page born June 14, 1928 Rosario, Argentina died October 1967 (aged 39) Bolivia role in Cuban Revolution Load Next Page
Inspire your inbox - Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.

Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics Supreme Court Rejects Texas Suit Seeking to Subvert Election https://nyti ms/3480Vqa The Presidential Transition Latest Updates Formal Transition Begins Biden’s Cabinet Defense Secretary Election Results AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Supported byContinue reading the main story Supreme Court Rejects Texas Suit Seeking to Subvert Election The suit, filed directly in the Supreme Court, sought to bar Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin from casting their electoral votes for Joseph R Biden Jr The Supreme Court received more than a dozen friend-of-the-court briefs and motions seeking to intervene Credit Stefani Reynolds for The New York Times By Adam Liptak Published Dec 11, 2020Updated Dec 12, 2020, 12:02 a m ET WASHINGTON - The Supreme Court on Friday rejected a lawsuit by Texas that had asked the court to throw out the election results in four battleground states that President Trump lost in November, ending any prospect that a brazen attempt to use the courts to reverse his defeat at the polls would succeed The court, in a brief unsigned order, said Texas lacked standing to pursue the case, saying it “has not demonstrated a judicially cognizable interest in the manner in which another state conducts its elections ” The order, coupled with another one on Tuesday turning away a similar request from Pennsylvania Republicans, signaled that a conservative court with three justices appointed by Mr Trump refused to be drawn into the extraordinary effort by the president and many prominent members of his party to deny his Democratic opponent, former Vice President Joseph R Biden Jr , his victory It was the latest and most significant setback for Mr Trump in a litigation campaign that was rejected by courts at every turn Texas’ lawsuit, filed directly in the Supreme Court, challenged election procedures in four states: Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin It asked the court to bar those states from casting their electoral votes for Mr Biden and to shift the selection of electors to the states’ legislatures That would have required the justices to throw out millions of votes Mr Trump has said he expected to prevail in the Supreme Court, after rushing the confirmation of Justice Amy Coney Barrett in October in part in the hope that she would vote in Mr Trump’s favor in election disputes “I think this will end up in the Supreme Court,” Mr Trump said of the election a few days after Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s death in September “And I think it’s very important that we have nine justices ” He was right that an election dispute would end up in the Supreme Court But he was quite wrong to think the court, even after he appointed a third of its members, would do his bidding And with the Electoral College set to meet on Monday, Mr Trump’s efforts to change the outcome of the election will soon be at an end Mr Trump’s campaign did not immediately issue a statement In an appearance on the conservative network Newsmax soon after the decision was announced, Rudolph W Giuliani, Mr Trump’s personal lawyer, said that the campaign’s legal effort would continue, insisting that his team had originally planned for “four or five separate cases ” “We’re not finished, believe me,” he said with a laugh at the end of the interview The president, who at a White House Hanukkah party earlier in the week eagerly mentioned the pending court case in his remarks, was scheduled to attend another holiday party around the time the ruling came down But around 8:30 p m , guests were informed that Mr Trump would not be coming down from the residence to speak Mr Trump weighed in later on Twitter “The Supreme Court really let us down,” he said “No Wisdom, No Courage ” Friday’s order was not quite unanimous Justice Samuel A Alito Jr , joined by Justice Clarence Thomas, issued a brief statement on a technical point But it was nonetheless a comprehensive rebuke to Mr Trump and his allies It was plain that the justices had no patience for Texas’ attempt to enlist the court in an effort to tell other states how to run their elections The majority ruled that Texas could not file its lawsuit at all “The state of Texas’ motion for leave to file a bill of complaint is denied for lack of standing,” the court’s order said Justice Alito, taking a slightly different approach, wrote that the court was not free immediately to shut down lawsuits filed by states directly in the court “In my view,” he wrote, “we do not have discretion to deny the filing of a bill of complaint in a case that falls within our original jurisdiction ” But that was as far as those two justices were willing to go “I would therefore grant the motion to file the bill of complaint but would not grant other relief,” Justice Alito wrote, “and I express no view on any other issue ” Some of Mr Trump’s advisers had anticipated the court would give the president and the Republican attorneys general something that could be characterized as supportive, in the form of a dissent or a lengthy commentary Instead, there was simply the brief statement from the two justices Mike Gwin, a spokesman for the Biden campaign, said the Supreme Court had “decisively and speedily rejected the latest of Donald Trump and his allies’ attacks on the democratic process ” “President-elect Biden’s clear and commanding victory will be ratified by the Electoral College on Monday, and he will be sworn in on Jan 20,” Mr Gwin said The Presidential Transition Latest Updates Updated Dec 11, 2020, 9:07 p m ET Congress might ban surprise medical billing, and that’s a surprise Biden is considering Cuomo for attorney general ‘Our institutions held’: Democrats (and some Republicans) cheer Supreme Court ruling on election suit Despite the court ruling, Mr Trump’s campaign plans to continue describing the election outcome as illegitimate On Friday night, it announced that it would be running ads on YouTube, which has started accepting political ads again after a moratorium, making that very case In the Texas case, the Supreme Court received more than a dozen friend-of-the-court briefs and motions seeking to intervene, from Mr Trump, from coalitions of liberal and conservative states, from politicians and from scholars Among them was a brief filed by more than 100 House Republicans who fell in line to claim that the general election - the same one in which most of them were re-elected - had been “riddled with an unprecedented number of serious allegations of fraud and irregularities ” More than a dozen Republican state attorneys general expressed similar support on Wednesday Legal experts almost universally dismissed Texas’ suit as an unbecoming stunt In invoking the Supreme Court’s “original jurisdiction,” Texas asked the justices to act as a trial court to settle a dispute between states, a procedure theoretically possible under the Constitution but employed sparingly, typically in cases concerning water rights or boundary disputes In a series of briefs filed Thursday, the four states that Texas sought to sue condemned the effort “The court should not abide this seditious abuse of the judicial process, and should send a clear and unmistakable signal that such abuse must never be replicated,” a brief for Pennsylvania said On Friday morning, Texas’ attorney general, Ken Paxton, responded with his own brief “Whatever Pennsylvania’s definition of sedition,” he wrote, “moving this court to cure grave threats to Texas’ right of suffrage in the Senate and its citizens’ rights of suffrage in presidential elections upholds the Constitution, which is the very opposite of sedition ” Claims that the election was tainted by widespread fraud have been debunked by Mr Trump’s own attorney general, William P Barr, who said this month that the Justice Department had uncovered no voting fraud “on a scale that could have effected a different outcome in the election ” Some 20 states led by Democrats, in a brief supporting the four battleground states, urged the Supreme Court “to reject Texas’ last-minute attempt to throw out the results of an election decided by the people and securely overseen and certified by its sister states ” Georgia, which Mr Biden won by less than 12,000 votes out of nearly five million cast, said in its brief that it had handled its election with integrity and care “This election cycle,” the brief said, “Georgia did what the Constitution empowered it to do: it implemented processes for the election, administered the election in the face of logistical challenges brought on by Covid-19, and confirmed and certified the election results - again and again and again Yet Texas has sued Georgia anyway ” Starting even before Election Day, Mr Trump and his Republican allies have filed nearly five dozen challenges to the handling, casting and counting of votes in courts in at least eight different states They generally lost those cases, often drawing blistering rebukes from the judges who heard them Along the way Mr Trump has not come close to overturning the election results in a single state, let alone the minimum of three he would need to seize victory from Mr Biden The first batch of actions preceded the election and sought to end or pare back voting measures that states across the country had put in place to deal with the coronavirus crisis In Texas, for instance, Republicans pursued a failed effort in federal court to stop drive-through voting in Harris County, home to Houston A similar move was made in Pennsylvania to stop the state from accepting mail-in ballots received after Election Day Mr Trump and his allies switched tactics after the election, filing a barrage of suits in Nevada, Arizona, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota and Georgia claiming that all manner of fraud had compromised the vote results They made accusations that truckloads of illegal ballots were brought in under cover of darkness to a convention center in Detroit; that poll workers in Atlanta were given suitcases full of fake ballots for Mr Biden; that Iran and China, working with local elections officials, had hacked into and manipulated algorithms in voting machines While some of these claims were supported by sworn statements from witnesses, judge after judge in case after case ruled that the evidence was not persuasive, credible or anywhere near enough to give Mr Trump the extraordinary relief he requested: a judicial order overturning the results of an election What is left is a judicial mopping-up exercise Several suits that the president and his supporters have lost in lower courts are now on appeal, in both the state and federal systems, but the appellate process is quickly running up against a crucial deadline on Monday when the Electoral College meets and Mr Biden is expected to prevail in the voting, all but sealing the results of the election Alan Feuer and Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York, and Chris Cameron from Washington AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Policy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Canada International Help Subscriptions

Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Supreme Court Rejects Texas Suit Seeking to Subvert Election https://nyti.ms/3480Vqa The Presidential Transition Latest Updates Formal Transition Begins Biden’s Cabinet Defense Secretary Election Results AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Supported byContinue reading the main story Supreme Court Rejects Texas Suit Seeking to Subvert Election The suit, filed directly in the Supreme Court, sought to bar Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin from casting their electoral votes for Joseph R. Biden Jr. The Supreme Court received more than a dozen friend-of-the-court briefs and motions seeking to intervene.Credit...Stefani Reynolds for The New York Times By Adam Liptak Published Dec. 11, 2020Updated Dec. 12, 2020, 12:02 a.m. ET WASHINGTON - The Supreme Court on Friday rejected a lawsuit by Texas that had asked the court to throw out the election results in four battleground states that President Trump lost in November, ending any prospect that a brazen attempt to use the courts to reverse his defeat at the polls would succeed. The court, in a brief unsigned order, said Texas lacked standing to pursue the case, saying it “has not demonstrated a judicially cognizable interest in the manner in which another state conducts its elections.” The order, coupled with another one on Tuesday turning away a similar request from Pennsylvania Republicans, signaled that a conservative court with three justices appointed by Mr. Trump refused to be drawn into the extraordinary effort by the president and many prominent members of his party to deny his Democratic opponent, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., his victory. It was the latest and most significant setback for Mr. Trump in a litigation campaign that was rejected by courts at every turn. Texas’ lawsuit, filed directly in the Supreme Court, challenged election procedures in four states: Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. It asked the court to bar those states from casting their electoral votes for Mr. Biden and to shift the selection of electors to the states’ legislatures. That would have required the justices to throw out millions of votes. Mr. Trump has said he expected to prevail in the Supreme Court, after rushing the confirmation of Justice Amy Coney Barrett in October in part in the hope that she would vote in Mr. Trump’s favor in election disputes. “I think this will end up in the Supreme Court,” Mr. Trump said of the election a few days after Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s death in September. “And I think it’s very important that we have nine justices.” He was right that an election dispute would end up in the Supreme Court. But he was quite wrong to think the court, even after he appointed a third of its members, would do his bidding. And with the Electoral College set to meet on Monday, Mr. Trump’s efforts to change the outcome of the election will soon be at an end. Mr. Trump’s campaign did not immediately issue a statement. In an appearance on the conservative network Newsmax soon after the decision was announced, Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, said that the campaign’s legal effort would continue, insisting that his team had originally planned for “four or five separate cases.” “We’re not finished, believe me,” he said with a laugh at the end of the interview. The president, who at a White House Hanukkah party earlier in the week eagerly mentioned the pending court case in his remarks, was scheduled to attend another holiday party around the time the ruling came down. But around 8:30 p.m., guests were informed that Mr. Trump would not be coming down from the residence to speak. Mr. Trump weighed in later on Twitter. “The Supreme Court really let us down,” he said. “No Wisdom, No Courage!” Friday’s order was not quite unanimous. Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., joined by Justice Clarence Thomas, issued a brief statement on a technical point. But it was nonetheless a comprehensive rebuke to Mr. Trump and his allies. It was plain that the justices had no patience for Texas’ attempt to enlist the court in an effort to tell other states how to run their elections. The majority ruled that Texas could not file its lawsuit at all. “The state of Texas’ motion for leave to file a bill of complaint is denied for lack of standing,” the court’s order said. Justice Alito, taking a slightly different approach, wrote that the court was not free immediately to shut down lawsuits filed by states directly in the court. “In my view,” he wrote, “we do not have discretion to deny the filing of a bill of complaint in a case that falls within our original jurisdiction.” But that was as far as those two justices were willing to go. “I would therefore grant the motion to file the bill of complaint but would not grant other relief,” Justice Alito wrote, “and I express no view on any other issue.” Some of Mr. Trump’s advisers had anticipated the court would give the president and the Republican attorneys general something that could be characterized as supportive, in the form of a dissent or a lengthy commentary. Instead, there was simply the brief statement from the two justices. Mike Gwin, a spokesman for the Biden campaign, said the Supreme Court had “decisively and speedily rejected the latest of Donald Trump and his allies’ attacks on the democratic process.” “President-elect Biden’s clear and commanding victory will be ratified by the Electoral College on Monday, and he will be sworn in on Jan. 20,” Mr. Gwin said. The Presidential Transition Latest Updates Updated Dec. 11, 2020, 9:07 p.m. ET Congress might ban surprise medical billing, and that’s a surprise. Biden is considering Cuomo for attorney general. ‘Our institutions held’: Democrats (and some Republicans) cheer Supreme Court ruling on election suit. Despite the court ruling, Mr. Trump’s campaign plans to continue describing the election outcome as illegitimate. On Friday night, it announced that it would be running ads on YouTube, which has started accepting political ads again after a moratorium, making that very case. In the Texas case, the Supreme Court received more than a dozen friend-of-the-court briefs and motions seeking to intervene, from Mr. Trump, from coalitions of liberal and conservative states, from politicians and from scholars. Among them was a brief filed by more than 100 House Republicans who fell in line to claim that the general election - the same one in which most of them were re-elected - had been “riddled with an unprecedented number of serious allegations of fraud and irregularities.” More than a dozen Republican state attorneys general expressed similar support on Wednesday. Legal experts almost universally dismissed Texas’ suit as an unbecoming stunt. In invoking the Supreme Court’s “original jurisdiction,” Texas asked the justices to act as a trial court to settle a dispute between states, a procedure theoretically possible under the Constitution but employed sparingly, typically in cases concerning water rights or boundary disputes. In a series of briefs filed Thursday, the four states that Texas sought to sue condemned the effort. “The court should not abide this seditious abuse of the judicial process, and should send a clear and unmistakable signal that such abuse must never be replicated,” a brief for Pennsylvania said. On Friday morning, Texas’ attorney general, Ken Paxton, responded with his own brief. “Whatever Pennsylvania’s definition of sedition,” he wrote, “moving this court to cure grave threats to Texas’ right of suffrage in the Senate and its citizens’ rights of suffrage in presidential elections upholds the Constitution, which is the very opposite of sedition.” Claims that the election was tainted by widespread fraud have been debunked by Mr. Trump’s own attorney general, William P. Barr, who said this month that the Justice Department had uncovered no voting fraud “on a scale that could have effected a different outcome in the election.” Some 20 states led by Democrats, in a brief supporting the four battleground states, urged the Supreme Court “to reject Texas’ last-minute attempt to throw out the results of an election decided by the people and securely overseen and certified by its sister states.” Georgia, which Mr. Biden won by less than 12,000 votes out of nearly five million cast, said in its brief that it had handled its election with integrity and care. “This election cycle,” the brief said, “Georgia did what the Constitution empowered it to do: it implemented processes for the election, administered the election in the face of logistical challenges brought on by Covid-19, and confirmed and certified the election results - again and again and again. Yet Texas has sued Georgia anyway.” Starting even before Election Day, Mr. Trump and his Republican allies have filed nearly five dozen challenges to the handling, casting and counting of votes in courts in at least eight different states. They generally lost those cases, often drawing blistering rebukes from the judges who heard them. Along the way Mr. Trump has not come close to overturning the election results in a single state, let alone the minimum of three he would need to seize victory from Mr. Biden. The first batch of actions preceded the election and sought to end or pare back voting measures that states across the country had put in place to deal with the coronavirus crisis. In Texas, for instance, Republicans pursued a failed effort in federal court to stop drive-through voting in Harris County, home to Houston. A similar move was made in Pennsylvania to stop the state from accepting mail-in ballots received after Election Day. Mr. Trump and his allies switched tactics after the election, filing a barrage of suits in Nevada, Arizona, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota and Georgia claiming that all manner of fraud had compromised the vote results. They made accusations that truckloads of illegal ballots were brought in under cover of darkness to a convention center in Detroit; that poll workers in Atlanta were given suitcases full of fake ballots for Mr. Biden; that Iran and China, working with local elections officials, had hacked into and manipulated algorithms in voting machines. While some of these claims were supported by sworn statements from witnesses, judge after judge in case after case ruled that the evidence was not persuasive, credible or anywhere near enough to give Mr. Trump the extraordinary relief he requested: a judicial order overturning the results of an election. What is left is a judicial mopping-up exercise. Several suits that the president and his supporters have lost in lower courts are now on appeal, in both the state and federal systems, but the appellate process is quickly running up against a crucial deadline on Monday when the Electoral College meets and Mr. Biden is expected to prevail in the voting, all but sealing the results of the election. Alan Feuer and Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York, and Chris Cameron from Washington. AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Policy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Canada International Help Subscriptions

Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics Supreme Court Rejects Texas Suit Seeking to Subvert Election https://nyti.ms/3480Vqa The Presidential Transition Latest Updates Formal Transition Begins Biden’s Cabinet Defense Secretary Election Results AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Supported byContinue reading the main story Supreme Court Rejects Texas Suit Seeking to Subvert Election The suit, filed directly in the Supreme Court, sought to bar Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin from casting their electoral votes for Joseph R. Biden Jr. The Supreme Court received more than a dozen friend-of-the-court briefs and motions seeking to intervene.Credit...Stefani Reynolds for The New York Times By Adam Liptak Published Dec. 11, 2020Updated Dec. 12, 2020, 12:02 a.m. ET WASHINGTON - The Supreme Court on Friday rejected a lawsuit by Texas that had asked the court to throw out the election results in four battleground states that President Trump lost in November, ending any prospect that a brazen attempt to use the courts to reverse his defeat at the polls would succeed. The court, in a brief unsigned order, said Texas lacked standing to pursue the case, saying it “has not demonstrated a judicially cognizable interest in the manner in which another state conducts its elections.” The order, coupled with another one on Tuesday turning away a similar request from Pennsylvania Republicans, signaled that a conservative court with three justices appointed by Mr. Trump refused to be drawn into the extraordinary effort by the president and many prominent members of his party to deny his Democratic opponent, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., his victory. It was the latest and most significant setback for Mr. Trump in a litigation campaign that was rejected by courts at every turn. Texas’ lawsuit, filed directly in the Supreme Court, challenged election procedures in four states: Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. It asked the court to bar those states from casting their electoral votes for Mr. Biden and to shift the selection of electors to the states’ legislatures. That would have required the justices to throw out millions of votes. Mr. Trump has said he expected to prevail in the Supreme Court, after rushing the confirmation of Justice Amy Coney Barrett in October in part in the hope that she would vote in Mr. Trump’s favor in election disputes. “I think this will end up in the Supreme Court,” Mr. Trump said of the election a few days after Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s death in September. “And I think it’s very important that we have nine justices.” He was right that an election dispute would end up in the Supreme Court. But he was quite wrong to think the court, even after he appointed a third of its members, would do his bidding. And with the Electoral College set to meet on Monday, Mr. Trump’s efforts to change the outcome of the election will soon be at an end. Mr. Trump’s campaign did not immediately issue a statement. In an appearance on the conservative network Newsmax soon after the decision was announced, Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, said that the campaign’s legal effort would continue, insisting that his team had originally planned for “four or five separate cases.” “We’re not finished, believe me,” he said with a laugh at the end of the interview. The president, who at a White House Hanukkah party earlier in the week eagerly mentioned the pending court case in his remarks, was scheduled to attend another holiday party around the time the ruling came down. But around 8:30 p.m., guests were informed that Mr. Trump would not be coming down from the residence to speak. Mr. Trump weighed in later on Twitter. “The Supreme Court really let us down,” he said. “No Wisdom, No Courage ” Friday’s order was not quite unanimous. Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., joined by Justice Clarence Thomas, issued a brief statement on a technical point. But it was nonetheless a comprehensive rebuke to Mr. Trump and his allies. It was plain that the justices had no patience for Texas’ attempt to enlist the court in an effort to tell other states how to run their elections. The majority ruled that Texas could not file its lawsuit at all. “The state of Texas’ motion for leave to file a bill of complaint is denied for lack of standing,” the court’s order said. Justice Alito, taking a slightly different approach, wrote that the court was not free immediately to shut down lawsuits filed by states directly in the court. “In my view,” he wrote, “we do not have discretion to deny the filing of a bill of complaint in a case that falls within our original jurisdiction.” But that was as far as those two justices were willing to go. “I would therefore grant the motion to file the bill of complaint but would not grant other relief,” Justice Alito wrote, “and I express no view on any other issue.” Some of Mr. Trump’s advisers had anticipated the court would give the president and the Republican attorneys general something that could be characterized as supportive, in the form of a dissent or a lengthy commentary. Instead, there was simply the brief statement from the two justices. Mike Gwin, a spokesman for the Biden campaign, said the Supreme Court had “decisively and speedily rejected the latest of Donald Trump and his allies’ attacks on the democratic process.” “President-elect Biden’s clear and commanding victory will be ratified by the Electoral College on Monday, and he will be sworn in on Jan. 20,” Mr. Gwin said. The Presidential Transition Latest Updates Updated Dec. 11, 2020, 9:07 p.m. ET Congress might ban surprise medical billing, and that’s a surprise. Biden is considering Cuomo for attorney general. ‘Our institutions held’: Democrats (and some Republicans) cheer Supreme Court ruling on election suit. Despite the court ruling, Mr. Trump’s campaign plans to continue describing the election outcome as illegitimate. On Friday night, it announced that it would be running ads on YouTube, which has started accepting political ads again after a moratorium, making that very case. In the Texas case, the Supreme Court received more than a dozen friend-of-the-court briefs and motions seeking to intervene, from Mr. Trump, from coalitions of liberal and conservative states, from politicians and from scholars. Among them was a brief filed by more than 100 House Republicans who fell in line to claim that the general election - the same one in which most of them were re-elected - had been “riddled with an unprecedented number of serious allegations of fraud and irregularities.” More than a dozen Republican state attorneys general expressed similar support on Wednesday. Legal experts almost universally dismissed Texas’ suit as an unbecoming stunt. In invoking the Supreme Court’s “original jurisdiction,” Texas asked the justices to act as a trial court to settle a dispute between states, a procedure theoretically possible under the Constitution but employed sparingly, typically in cases concerning water rights or boundary disputes. In a series of briefs filed Thursday, the four states that Texas sought to sue condemned the effort. “The court should not abide this seditious abuse of the judicial process, and should send a clear and unmistakable signal that such abuse must never be replicated,” a brief for Pennsylvania said. On Friday morning, Texas’ attorney general, Ken Paxton, responded with his own brief. “Whatever Pennsylvania’s definition of sedition,” he wrote, “moving this court to cure grave threats to Texas’ right of suffrage in the Senate and its citizens’ rights of suffrage in presidential elections upholds the Constitution, which is the very opposite of sedition.” Claims that the election was tainted by widespread fraud have been debunked by Mr. Trump’s own attorney general, William P. Barr, who said this month that the Justice Department had uncovered no voting fraud “on a scale that could have effected a different outcome in the election.” Some 20 states led by Democrats, in a brief supporting the four battleground states, urged the Supreme Court “to reject Texas’ last-minute attempt to throw out the results of an election decided by the people and securely overseen and certified by its sister states.” Georgia, which Mr. Biden won by less than 12,000 votes out of nearly five million cast, said in its brief that it had handled its election with integrity and care. “This election cycle,” the brief said, “Georgia did what the Constitution empowered it to do: it implemented processes for the election, administered the election in the face of logistical challenges brought on by Covid-19, and confirmed and certified the election results - again and again and again. Yet Texas has sued Georgia anyway.” Starting even before Election Day, Mr. Trump and his Republican allies have filed nearly five dozen challenges to the handling, casting and counting of votes in courts in at least eight different states. They generally lost those cases, often drawing blistering rebukes from the judges who heard them. Along the way Mr. Trump has not come close to overturning the election results in a single state, let alone the minimum of three he would need to seize victory from Mr. Biden. The first batch of actions preceded the election and sought to end or pare back voting measures that states across the country had put in place to deal with the coronavirus crisis. In Texas, for instance, Republicans pursued a failed effort in federal court to stop drive-through voting in Harris County, home to Houston. A similar move was made in Pennsylvania to stop the state from accepting mail-in ballots received after Election Day. Mr. Trump and his allies switched tactics after the election, filing a barrage of suits in Nevada, Arizona, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota and Georgia claiming that all manner of fraud had compromised the vote results. They made accusations that truckloads of illegal ballots were brought in under cover of darkness to a convention center in Detroit; that poll workers in Atlanta were given suitcases full of fake ballots for Mr. Biden; that Iran and China, working with local elections officials, had hacked into and manipulated algorithms in voting machines. While some of these claims were supported by sworn statements from witnesses, judge after judge in case after case ruled that the evidence was not persuasive, credible or anywhere near enough to give Mr. Trump the extraordinary relief he requested: a judicial order overturning the results of an election. What is left is a judicial mopping-up exercise. Several suits that the president and his supporters have lost in lower courts are now on appeal, in both the state and federal systems, but the appellate process is quickly running up against a crucial deadline on Monday when the Electoral College meets and Mr. Biden is expected to prevail in the voting, all but sealing the results of the election. Alan Feuer and Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York, and Chris Cameron from Washington. AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Policy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Canada International Help Subscriptions

Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics. Supreme Court Rejects Texas Suit Seeking to Subvert Election https://nyti. ms/3480Vqa The Presidential Transition Latest Updates Formal Transition Begins Biden’s Cabinet Defense Secretary Election Results AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Supported byContinue reading the main story Supreme Court Rejects Texas Suit Seeking to Subvert Election The suit, filed directly in the Supreme Court, sought to bar Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin from casting their electoral votes for Joseph R. Biden Jr. The Supreme Court received more than a dozen friend-of-the-court briefs and motions seeking to intervene. Credit. Stefani Reynolds for The New York Times By Adam Liptak Published Dec. 11, 2020Updated Dec. 12, 2020, 12:02 a. m. ET WASHINGTON - The Supreme Court on Friday rejected a lawsuit by Texas that had asked the court to throw out the election results in four battleground states that President Trump lost in November, ending any prospect that a brazen attempt to use the courts to reverse his defeat at the polls would succeed. The court, in a brief unsigned order, said Texas lacked standing to pursue the case, saying it “has not demonstrated a judicially cognizable interest in the manner in which another state conducts its elections. ” The order, coupled with another one on Tuesday turning away a similar request from Pennsylvania Republicans, signaled that a conservative court with three justices appointed by Mr. Trump refused to be drawn into the extraordinary effort by the president and many prominent members of his party to deny his Democratic opponent, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. , his victory. It was the latest and most significant setback for Mr. Trump in a litigation campaign that was rejected by courts at every turn. Texas’ lawsuit, filed directly in the Supreme Court, challenged election procedures in four states: Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. It asked the court to bar those states from casting their electoral votes for Mr. Biden and to shift the selection of electors to the states’ legislatures. That would have required the justices to throw out millions of votes. Mr. Trump has said he expected to prevail in the Supreme Court, after rushing the confirmation of Justice Amy Coney Barrett in October in part in the hope that she would vote in Mr. Trump’s favor in election disputes. “I think this will end up in the Supreme Court,” Mr. Trump said of the election a few days after Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s death in September. “And I think it’s very important that we have nine justices. ” He was right that an election dispute would end up in the Supreme Court. But he was quite wrong to think the court, even after he appointed a third of its members, would do his bidding. And with the Electoral College set to meet on Monday, Mr. Trump’s efforts to change the outcome of the election will soon be at an end. Mr. Trump’s campaign did not immediately issue a statement. In an appearance on the conservative network Newsmax soon after the decision was announced, Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, said that the campaign’s legal effort would continue, insisting that his team had originally planned for “four or five separate cases. ” “We’re not finished, believe me,” he said with a laugh at the end of the interview. The president, who at a White House Hanukkah party earlier in the week eagerly mentioned the pending court case in his remarks, was scheduled to attend another holiday party around the time the ruling came down. But around 8:30 p. m. , guests were informed that Mr. Trump would not be coming down from the residence to speak. Mr. Trump weighed in later on Twitter. “The Supreme Court really let us down,” he said. “No Wisdom, No Courage. ” Friday’s order was not quite unanimous. Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. , joined by Justice Clarence Thomas, issued a brief statement on a technical point. But it was nonetheless a comprehensive rebuke to Mr. Trump and his allies. It was plain that the justices had no patience for Texas’ attempt to enlist the court in an effort to tell other states how to run their elections. The majority ruled that Texas could not file its lawsuit at all. “The state of Texas’ motion for leave to file a bill of complaint is denied for lack of standing,” the court’s order said. Justice Alito, taking a slightly different approach, wrote that the court was not free immediately to shut down lawsuits filed by states directly in the court. “In my view,” he wrote, “we do not have discretion to deny the filing of a bill of complaint in a case that falls within our original jurisdiction. ” But that was as far as those two justices were willing to go. “I would therefore grant the motion to file the bill of complaint but would not grant other relief,” Justice Alito wrote, “and I express no view on any other issue. ” Some of Mr. Trump’s advisers had anticipated the court would give the president and the Republican attorneys general something that could be characterized as supportive, in the form of a dissent or a lengthy commentary. Instead, there was simply the brief statement from the two justices. Mike Gwin, a spokesman for the Biden campaign, said the Supreme Court had “decisively and speedily rejected the latest of Donald Trump and his allies’ attacks on the democratic process. ” “President-elect Biden’s clear and commanding victory will be ratified by the Electoral College on Monday, and he will be sworn in on Jan. 20,” Mr. Gwin said. The Presidential Transition Latest Updates Updated Dec. 11, 2020, 9:07 p. m. ET Congress might ban surprise medical billing, and that’s a surprise. Biden is considering Cuomo for attorney general. ‘Our institutions held’: Democrats (and some Republicans) cheer Supreme Court ruling on election suit. Despite the court ruling, Mr. Trump’s campaign plans to continue describing the election outcome as illegitimate. On Friday night, it announced that it would be running ads on YouTube, which has started accepting political ads again after a moratorium, making that very case. In the Texas case, the Supreme Court received more than a dozen friend-of-the-court briefs and motions seeking to intervene, from Mr. Trump, from coalitions of liberal and conservative states, from politicians and from scholars. Among them was a brief filed by more than 100 House Republicans who fell in line to claim that the general election - the same one in which most of them were re-elected - had been “riddled with an unprecedented number of serious allegations of fraud and irregularities. ” More than a dozen Republican state attorneys general expressed similar support on Wednesday. Legal experts almost universally dismissed Texas’ suit as an unbecoming stunt. In invoking the Supreme Court’s “original jurisdiction,” Texas asked the justices to act as a trial court to settle a dispute between states, a procedure theoretically possible under the Constitution but employed sparingly, typically in cases concerning water rights or boundary disputes. In a series of briefs filed Thursday, the four states that Texas sought to sue condemned the effort. “The court should not abide this seditious abuse of the judicial process, and should send a clear and unmistakable signal that such abuse must never be replicated,” a brief for Pennsylvania said. On Friday morning, Texas’ attorney general, Ken Paxton, responded with his own brief. “Whatever Pennsylvania’s definition of sedition,” he wrote, “moving this court to cure grave threats to Texas’ right of suffrage in the Senate and its citizens’ rights of suffrage in presidential elections upholds the Constitution, which is the very opposite of sedition. ” Claims that the election was tainted by widespread fraud have been debunked by Mr. Trump’s own attorney general, William P. Barr, who said this month that the Justice Department had uncovered no voting fraud “on a scale that could have effected a different outcome in the election. ” Some 20 states led by Democrats, in a brief supporting the four battleground states, urged the Supreme Court “to reject Texas’ last-minute attempt to throw out the results of an election decided by the people and securely overseen and certified by its sister states. ” Georgia, which Mr. Biden won by less than 12,000 votes out of nearly five million cast, said in its brief that it had handled its election with integrity and care. “This election cycle,” the brief said, “Georgia did what the Constitution empowered it to do: it implemented processes for the election, administered the election in the face of logistical challenges brought on by Covid-19, and confirmed and certified the election results - again and again and again. Yet Texas has sued Georgia anyway. ” Starting even before Election Day, Mr. Trump and his Republican allies have filed nearly five dozen challenges to the handling, casting and counting of votes in courts in at least eight different states. They generally lost those cases, often drawing blistering rebukes from the judges who heard them. Along the way Mr. Trump has not come close to overturning the election results in a single state, let alone the minimum of three he would need to seize victory from Mr. Biden. The first batch of actions preceded the election and sought to end or pare back voting measures that states across the country had put in place to deal with the coronavirus crisis. In Texas, for instance, Republicans pursued a failed effort in federal court to stop drive-through voting in Harris County, home to Houston. A similar move was made in Pennsylvania to stop the state from accepting mail-in ballots received after Election Day. Mr. Trump and his allies switched tactics after the election, filing a barrage of suits in Nevada, Arizona, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota and Georgia claiming that all manner of fraud had compromised the vote results. They made accusations that truckloads of illegal ballots were brought in under cover of darkness to a convention center in Detroit; that poll workers in Atlanta were given suitcases full of fake ballots for Mr. Biden; that Iran and China, working with local elections officials, had hacked into and manipulated algorithms in voting machines. While some of these claims were supported by sworn statements from witnesses, judge after judge in case after case ruled that the evidence was not persuasive, credible or anywhere near enough to give Mr. Trump the extraordinary relief he requested: a judicial order overturning the results of an election. What is left is a judicial mopping-up exercise. Several suits that the president and his supporters have lost in lower courts are now on appeal, in both the state and federal systems, but the appellate process is quickly running up against a crucial deadline on Monday when the Electoral College meets and Mr. Biden is expected to prevail in the voting, all but sealing the results of the election. Alan Feuer and Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York, and Chris Cameron from Washington. AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Policy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Canada International Help Subscriptions















Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics
Supreme Court Rejects Texas Suit Seeking to Subvert Election https://nyti
ms/3480Vqa The Presidential Transition Latest Updates Formal Transition Begins Biden’s Cabinet Defense Secretary Election Results AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Supported byContinue reading the main story Supreme Court Rejects Texas Suit Seeking to Subvert Election The suit, filed directly in the Supreme Court, sought to bar Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin from casting their electoral votes for Joseph R
Biden Jr
The Supreme Court received more than a dozen friend-of-the-court briefs and motions seeking to intervene
Credit
Stefani Reynolds for The New York Times By Adam Liptak Published Dec
11, 2020Updated Dec
12, 2020, 12:02 a
m
ET WASHINGTON - The Supreme Court on Friday rejected a lawsuit by Texas that had asked the court to throw out the election results in four battleground states that President Trump lost in November, ending any prospect that a brazen attempt to use the courts to reverse his defeat at the polls would succeed
The court, in a brief unsigned order, said Texas lacked standing to pursue the case, saying it “has not demonstrated a judicially cognizable interest in the manner in which another state conducts its elections
” The order, coupled with another one on Tuesday turning away a similar request from Pennsylvania Republicans, signaled that a conservative court with three justices appointed by Mr
Trump refused to be drawn into the extraordinary effort by the president and many prominent members of his party to deny his Democratic opponent, former Vice President Joseph R
Biden Jr
, his victory
It was the latest and most significant setback for Mr
Trump in a litigation campaign that was rejected by courts at every turn
Texas’ lawsuit, filed directly in the Supreme Court, challenged election procedures in four states: Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin
It asked the court to bar those states from casting their electoral votes for Mr
Biden and to shift the selection of electors to the states’ legislatures
That would have required the justices to throw out millions of votes
Mr
Trump has said he expected to prevail in the Supreme Court, after rushing the confirmation of Justice Amy Coney Barrett in October in part in the hope that she would vote in Mr
Trump’s favor in election disputes
“I think this will end up in the Supreme Court,” Mr
Trump said of the election a few days after Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s death in September
“And I think it’s very important that we have nine justices
” He was right that an election dispute would end up in the Supreme Court
But he was quite wrong to think the court, even after he appointed a third of its members, would do his bidding
And with the Electoral College set to meet on Monday, Mr
Trump’s efforts to change the outcome of the election will soon be at an end
Mr
Trump’s campaign did not immediately issue a statement
In an appearance on the conservative network Newsmax soon after the decision was announced, Rudolph W
Giuliani, Mr
Trump’s personal lawyer, said that the campaign’s legal effort would continue, insisting that his team had originally planned for “four or five separate cases
” “We’re not finished, believe me,” he said with a laugh at the end of the interview
The president, who at a White House Hanukkah party earlier in the week eagerly mentioned the pending court case in his remarks, was scheduled to attend another holiday party around the time the ruling came down
But around 8:30 p
m
, guests were informed that Mr
Trump would not be coming down from the residence to speak
Mr
Trump weighed in later on Twitter
“The Supreme Court really let us down,” he said
“No Wisdom, No Courage
” Friday’s order was not quite unanimous
Justice Samuel A
Alito Jr
, joined by Justice Clarence Thomas, issued a brief statement on a technical point
But it was nonetheless a comprehensive rebuke to Mr
Trump and his allies
It was plain that the justices had no patience for Texas’ attempt to enlist the court in an effort to tell other states how to run their elections
The majority ruled that Texas could not file its lawsuit at all
“The state of Texas’ motion for leave to file a bill of complaint is denied for lack of standing,” the court’s order said
Justice Alito, taking a slightly different approach, wrote that the court was not free immediately to shut down lawsuits filed by states directly in the court
“In my view,” he wrote, “we do not have discretion to deny the filing of a bill of complaint in a case that falls within our original jurisdiction
” But that was as far as those two justices were willing to go
“I would therefore grant the motion to file the bill of complaint but would not grant other relief,” Justice Alito wrote, “and I express no view on any other issue
” Some of Mr
Trump’s advisers had anticipated the court would give the president and the Republican attorneys general something that could be characterized as supportive, in the form of a dissent or a lengthy commentary
Instead, there was simply the brief statement from the two justices
Mike Gwin, a spokesman for the Biden campaign, said the Supreme Court had “decisively and speedily rejected the latest of Donald Trump and his allies’ attacks on the democratic process
” “President-elect Biden’s clear and commanding victory will be ratified by the Electoral College on Monday, and he will be sworn in on Jan
20,” Mr
Gwin said
The Presidential Transition Latest Updates Updated Dec
11, 2020, 9:07 p
m
ET Congress might ban surprise medical billing, and that’s a surprise
Biden is considering Cuomo for attorney general
‘Our institutions held’: Democrats (and some Republicans) cheer Supreme Court ruling on election suit
Despite the court ruling, Mr
Trump’s campaign plans to continue describing the election outcome as illegitimate
On Friday night, it announced that it would be running ads on YouTube, which has started accepting political ads again after a moratorium, making that very case
In the Texas case, the Supreme Court received more than a dozen friend-of-the-court briefs and motions seeking to intervene, from Mr
Trump, from coalitions of liberal and conservative states, from politicians and from scholars
Among them was a brief filed by more than 100 House Republicans who fell in line to claim that the general election - the same one in which most of them were re-elected - had been “riddled with an unprecedented number of serious allegations of fraud and irregularities
” More than a dozen Republican state attorneys general expressed similar support on Wednesday
Legal experts almost universally dismissed Texas’ suit as an unbecoming stunt
In invoking the Supreme Court’s “original jurisdiction,” Texas asked the justices to act as a trial court to settle a dispute between states, a procedure theoretically possible under the Constitution but employed sparingly, typically in cases concerning water rights or boundary disputes
In a series of briefs filed Thursday, the four states that Texas sought to sue condemned the effort
“The court should not abide this seditious abuse of the judicial process, and should send a clear and unmistakable signal that such abuse must never be replicated,” a brief for Pennsylvania said
On Friday morning, Texas’ attorney general, Ken Paxton, responded with his own brief
“Whatever Pennsylvania’s definition of sedition,” he wrote, “moving this court to cure grave threats to Texas’ right of suffrage in the Senate and its citizens’ rights of suffrage in presidential elections upholds the Constitution, which is the very opposite of sedition
” Claims that the election was tainted by widespread fraud have been debunked by Mr
Trump’s own attorney general, William P
Barr, who said this month that the Justice Department had uncovered no voting fraud “on a scale that could have effected a different outcome in the election
” Some 20 states led by Democrats, in a brief supporting the four battleground states, urged the Supreme Court “to reject Texas’ last-minute attempt to throw out the results of an election decided by the people and securely overseen and certified by its sister states
” Georgia, which Mr
Biden won by less than 12,000 votes out of nearly five million cast, said in its brief that it had handled its election with integrity and care
“This election cycle,” the brief said, “Georgia did what the Constitution empowered it to do: it implemented processes for the election, administered the election in the face of logistical challenges brought on by Covid-19, and confirmed and certified the election results - again and again and again
Yet Texas has sued Georgia anyway
” Starting even before Election Day, Mr
Trump and his Republican allies have filed nearly five dozen challenges to the handling, casting and counting of votes in courts in at least eight different states
They generally lost those cases, often drawing blistering rebukes from the judges who heard them
Along the way Mr
Trump has not come close to overturning the election results in a single state, let alone the minimum of three he would need to seize victory from Mr
Biden
The first batch of actions preceded the election and sought to end or pare back voting measures that states across the country had put in place to deal with the coronavirus crisis
In Texas, for instance, Republicans pursued a failed effort in federal court to stop drive-through voting in Harris County, home to Houston
A similar move was made in Pennsylvania to stop the state from accepting mail-in ballots received after Election Day
Mr
Trump and his allies switched tactics after the election, filing a barrage of suits in Nevada, Arizona, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota and Georgia claiming that all manner of fraud had compromised the vote results
They made accusations that truckloads of illegal ballots were brought in under cover of darkness to a convention center in Detroit; that poll workers in Atlanta were given suitcases full of fake ballots for Mr
Biden; that Iran and China, working with local elections officials, had hacked into and manipulated algorithms in voting machines
While some of these claims were supported by sworn statements from witnesses, judge after judge in case after case ruled that the evidence was not persuasive, credible or anywhere near enough to give Mr
Trump the extraordinary relief he requested: a judicial order overturning the results of an election
What is left is a judicial mopping-up exercise
Several suits that the president and his supporters have lost in lower courts are now on appeal, in both the state and federal systems, but the appellate process is quickly running up against a crucial deadline on Monday when the Electoral College meets and Mr
Biden is expected to prevail in the voting, all but sealing the results of the election
Alan Feuer and Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York, and Chris Cameron from Washington
AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Policy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Canada International Help Subscriptions